#summary Installation steps

=UNDER CONSTRUCTION=

Installing [http://extlib.openntf.org/ XPages Extension Library] for ZK Spreadsheet is very straightforward. If you have any problems following the instruction below, you could also refer to the [http://www.openntf.org/Projects/pmt.nsf/122B29BEE5A3E3A58625779F001DEA75/%24file/XPages%20Extension%20Library%20Documentation.pdf documentation] of XPages Extension Library or other online [http://www.slideshare.net/WorkFlowStudios/xpages-extension-toolkit-library-installation-steps slideshows]. They have more installation screenshots.

==Installing the library on Domino Designer==
 # The library is provided as an Eclipse update site which should be installed using the Eclipse update manager. To enable the update manager, you should display the Designer _Preferences->Domino Designer_ and check _Enable Eclipse plug-in installation_
 # Now, the menu _File->Application->Install..._ is enabled. Select it and choose to install a new feature
 # Add the *updateSite.zip* file
 # Accept the License terms in order to continue with the installation for the the plugin then restart Designer
 # Verify that the plug-ins are properly installed from the menu _Help->About Domino Designer_ using the plug-in details button. Check if there are *org.zkoss.xpage.core* and *org.zkoss.xpage.zss* <br/>http://zkxpage.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/docs/images/installation_4.png
==Installing the library on Domino Server==
 The library can also be installed as a set of plug-in on the Domino server, but currently there is no update manager UI available on the Domino server. Therefore you must install it manually.
 # Unpack the folder *features*,*plugins* of the *updateSite.zip* into the directory(ex, *C:\IBM\Lotus\Domino\data\domino\workspace\applications\eclipse*) located in your Domino data directory (be careful to strictly respect the directory hierarchy). Under the Eclipse folder, there should be two folders named *features* and *plugins*. (Note: you must delete the old version of jar files in this plugin).<br/>http://zkxpage.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/docs/images/installation_2.png
 # Add permission to jvm security policy grant session (ex, *C:\IBM\Lotus\Domino\jvm\lib\security\java.policy*). Please consult your Domino admin if you have any security issue.
{{{
grant { 
  //....other permission....
  //for components
  permission java.lang.RuntimePermission "getClassLoader";
  //for zk spreadsheet pdf export
  permission java.lang.RuntimePermission "getenv.windir"
}
}}}
 # Restart your server or the http task(use command *restart task http*). The library should be available. To verify that the library is properly installed and running, use command *tell http osgi ss org.zkoss.xpage*. You should get a result showing the plug-ins at least with in the *RESOLVED* state. <br/>http://zkxpage.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/docs/images/installation_1.png